Kit Hardware Docs (#11)
sourcebots/sbot: docs/source/kit/arduino.rst

Arduino
=======

This board allows you to control GPIO pins and analogue pins. More specifically, it's an `Arduino Uno <https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-uno-rev3>`__.

.. figure:: /_static/kit/arduino_headers.png
   :alt: Arduino
   :scale: 75%

   Arduino Uno

Headers
-------

We have supplied 2 screw terminal headers for your Arduino, allowing you to easily, and securely attach your sensors.

The reset button
----------------

The reset button allows you to instantly reboot the Arduino in case it
isn’t working. This is not a guaranteed fix, but may solve some
problems.

GPIO Pins
---------

The Arduino allows you to connect your kit to your own electronics. It has fourteen digital I/O pins, and six analogue. The analogue pins can read an analogue signal from 0 to 5V. The board also has a couple of ground pins, as well as some pins fixed at 3.3V and 5V output.

> The pin layout of the servo assembly is the same as an Arduino Uno.

Reviewer: The servo assembly isn't relevant anymore. I don't think this line is needed at all now.

.. figure:: /_static/kit/arduino_pinout.png
   :alt: Pin Map
   :scale: 20%

   Pin Map

Ultrasound Sensors
------------------

Ultrasound sensors are a useful way of measuring distance. Ultrasound sensors communicate with the kit using two wires. A signal is sent to the sensor on the trigger pin, and the length of a response pulse on the echo pin can be used to calculate the distance.

.. Warning:: Ultrasound should only be considered accurate up to around two metres, beyond which the signal can become distorted and produce erroneous results.

The sensor has four pin connections: ground, 5V (sometimes labelled
*vcc*), *trigger* and *echo*. Most ultrasound sensors will label which
pin is which. The ground and 5V should be wired to the ground and 5V
pins of the Arduino respectively. The trigger and echo pins should be
attached to two different digital IO pins. Take note of these two pins,
you’ll need them to use the sensor.

> .. Hint:: If the sensor always returns a distance of zero, it means the *trigger* and *echo* pins are connected the wrong way! Either change the pin numbers in the code, or swap the connections.

Reviewer: There's other reasons why a sensor might return a distance of zero.

```suggestion
.. Hint:: If the sensor always returns a distance of zero, it might mean the *trigger* and *echo* pins are connected the wrong way! Either change the pin numbers in the code, or swap the connections.
```

Also see also #16.

Designs
-------

The schematic diagrams for the Arduino is below, as
well as the source code of the firmware on the Arduino. You do not need
this information to use the board but it may be of interest to some
people.

-  `Arduino Uno

>    Schematic <https://www.arduino.cc/en/uploads/Main/Arduino_Uno_Rev3-schematic.pdf>`__

Reviewer: Is it worth hosting a copy of this ourselves?
